Subject: Temporary suspension of testing security support after release of 5.0 (lenny)

Due to the experiences we made after the last stable Debian release, the
Testing Security Team believes that it will be impossible to provide proper
security support for the new testing (Debian "squeeze") in the weeks following
the release of Debian 5.0 (lenny).  Therefore we will temporarily suspend
security support for Debian testing after the release.

If you need security support, we strongly recommend that you now change your apt
sources.list entries to point to "lenny" instead of "testing".  This way you
will automatically stay with "lenny" after its release as stable and will
receive the normal security support for Debian stable.  After the begin of
security support for Debian "squeeze" is announced, you may safely upgrade to
testing again.


There are two reasons for this suspension:

After a stable release it will take some time to get the security related buildd
infrastructure for the new testing in place.  Since many people will be busy
celebrating the release, we don't know how long this will take ;-)

In addition to that, we expect that shortly after the release a new libc
version will be uploaded to unstable, which will block most packages from
migrating from unstable to testing.  This means that no security fixes will
reach testing from unstable.  Since the Testing Security Team does not have
enough members to backport all security fixes to testing, it will be impossible
to provide proper security support.  After the last stable release (etch) it
took nearly two months until the new glibc reached testing.

On the other hand, libc blocking most packages from migrating to testing also
means that the difference between stable and testing will not grow quickly in
the weeks after lenny release.  Therefore staying with stable should be an
acceptable solution for most users during that time.  If you absolutely need
newer packages, you may also consider using unstable instead of testing.
